new-post: reana-client-appimage (#26)
reanahub/blog.reana.io: content/posts/2022/reana-client-appimage.md

---
title: "Standalone reana-client application executables for Linux systems"
date: 2022-06-01T08:00:00+01:00
tags:
  - client
  - linux
---

The usual way of creating, executing and managing REANA workflows is by means
of a [reana-client](https://docs.reana.io/getting-started/first-example/)
command-line tool. However, installing `reana-client` can be painful in certain
situations, for example when it conflicts with your other Python project

> dependencies and when you don't want to be switching Python virtual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dependencies or when you don't want to be switching Python virtual
```

Author: Changed to "... and you don't want..."

environments all the time. In these cases, using a fully standalone
`reana-client` executable would be desirable.

<!--more-->

As of REANA 0.8.0, we have started publishing standalone `reana-client`
executables for Linux operating systems using the
[AppImage](https://appimage.org/) technology. The published application
executables contain `reana-client` command-line tool together with Python and
all the necessary dependent libraries embedded in the bundle, so that the
clients run fully independently of your local environment.

You can download `reana-client` standalone executables from our [GitHub release
pages](https://github.com/reanahub/reana-client/releases), for example:

```console
$ wget https://github.com/reanahub/reana-client/releases/download/0.8.1/reana-client-0.8.1-x86_64.AppImage
```

If you place the executable into some convenient directory found in your
`PATH`, such as `$HOME/.local/bin`:

```console
$ chmod u+x ./reana-client-0.8.1-x86_64.AppImage
$ mv ./reana-client-0.8.1-x86_64.AppImage $HOME/.local/bin/reana-client-0.8.1
```

> you will be able to use `reana-client-0.8.1` executable from anywhere:

Author: Changed to "You will now be able...".

```console
$ cd myanalysis
$ reana-client-0.8.1 ping
REANA server: https://reana.cern.ch
REANA server version: 0.9.0a5
REANA client version: 0.8.1
Authenticated as: John Doe <john.doe@example.org>
Status: Connected
```

Please note that the `reana-client` AppImage executable format works only on
Linux operating systems. It should be supported by all major Linux
distributions. Please let us know if encounter any troubles on your favourite
Linux distribution.

If you are using another operating system, such as macOS, you will not be able

> to use these images. But don't worry! We are considering creating standalone
> statically-linked `reana-client` executables using Golang in the near future.
> This will provide the same functionality (and be much faster as a bonus). Stay
> tuned for more news later in the year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use these images. But don't worry! We are considering switching to Go as the programming language
for `reana-client` in the near future, which will let us easily create standalone cross-platform executables.
This new version of `reana-client` will provide the same functionalities as the old one, while also being much faster as a bonus. Stay
tuned for more news later in the year.
```
WDYT?

Author: Hmm, "switching" would send too strong a message, e.g. we may want to retain Python APIs for RECAST and notebooks etc.  I have reformulated tho paragraph into:

```
If you are using another operating system, such as macOS, you will not be able
to use these executables. But don't worry! We are considering creating
statically-linked cross-platform `reana-client` executables using Go
programming language in the near future. Stay tuned for more news later in the
year.
```
